So, next we need to actually
set up things in our Scene.
So we're going to use simple primitives,
just a cube and
a couple of spheres to represent
all the things in our game world.
And I have some specific
values that we want to use
to actually position those
things in the world.
And I have them listed out here in
the slides just as reference but,
I'm going to switch over to Unity and
actually add these things now.
So, something I wanted to point out just
really quickly in the Scene view is that
if your scene looks a little
bit different than mine,
I have this Skybox here that's
kind of a studio environment and
that will be reflected on to
game objects in the Scene.
If you don't have that,
that's totally okay.
It's still there in the project but
you can toggle the visibility of that,
you can toggle the Skybox fog and
various other effects with this button
in the upper right of the Scene view.
So it looks like a little stack with a
little star on top of it, and if you click
that you'll get more of a grey default
environment that you might expect.
And one other really important thing
that I want to point out is that,
if your hierarchy looks completely
different and you don't have some of these
gizmos in the Scene, it might be because
you have a different Scene opened.
It's very important to go to your
project window, assets, Scenes, and
make sure that you double
click this main Scene and
that's what you have open because
that's where we're going to be working.
So I'm going to create that cube for
our game board, and to do that,
I'm going to come to the upper
left of the hierarchy here and
click this plus button, and that will
open what's called the Create menu.
And there's a lot of things
in Unity that we can create.
We can create empty game objects,
empty child game objects,
and we can also create 3D objects,
like cubes and spheres and
other primitive 3D objects.
So, I'm going to choose cube here.
And when you create a new game object,
it will give you
the opportunity to rename it.
So, I'm going to change this
to board because this cube is
going to be kind of like a coffee
table game board in our world.
And with the board selected,
you'll notice over in the inspector
that there are several components that
are already added to this game object.
Every game object has a transform
component by default, so
if I select some of these other game
objects like the main camera or
the directional light, you'll see that
they also have a transform component
that places them in the 3D world.
And if I go back to the board,
you'll see that it is at
the origin of the world.
So, it is at position 0,
rotation 0 and scale 0.
There's a couple of different
ways we can move it around.
So again, if I hold down Option on Mac or
Alt on Windows,
I can actually orbit the camera here and
take a look around this game object.
And if I want to frame it up, I can hit
the F button just to get closer in or
I can use the mouse scroll
wheel to kind of go in and out.
To manipulate this game object,
there's a couple of different
tools here in this panel.
So I can use the transform tool or sorry,
the move tool here, to move this around,
I can click and drag on these arrows and
I can move it up and down in the y.
And you'll see as I'm doing that, it
updates the inspector on the right side,
so the y value is updating
as I'm doing that.
I can also click between the arrows in
the move tool to lock it to a plane.
So if I just want to move this cube
along the x, z plane, I can do that.
And then of course,
there's also the Rotate tool,
so that will adjust the rotation.
If I just kind of click and
drag in the middle of that,
I can rotate this cube freely.
But I'm going to hit Command Z on Mac or
Ctrl Z on Windows to undo some of those,
because we're actually just going to
type in values for this directly.
So, the position for the x and
z will remain at 0, but for
y, we want to place this cube at 0.5.
So it's a little bit off the ground, and
if I rotate you'll actually see
that it is now planar to the grid
because every cube in Unity by default,
has a size of 1 cubed.
And one is, well,
the default unit in Unity is meters,
and so this cube has a volume or,
area of 1 meter cube.
So, this cube is at 0.5.
So because it's one unit tall,
it's half off the ground and
that's why it's now planar to the ground.
We're gonna create a couple of
spheres now, to represent the player,
the opponent and the collectible.
And to do that, again we'll go to
the create menu and the hierarchy here.
I'll select the 3D object and
choose sphere.
And this one, I will call player.
And this sphere, if you look at it is way
too large for our game board here.
So you can also pan around
by holding down Option and
Command on Mac to kind of just pan there.
But this is way too large for
our game board, so
we need to adjust the scale of this.
So the scale for
the player sphere will be 0.1.
And we want to adjust that on the x,
y, and z.
So 0.1 for the scale,
and then the position,
we're going to put this at an x of -0.3,
y is 1.75, and then the z can be 0.
So, this is going to place this, so
that it's going to actually
drop into the game board.
These gizmos are a little big,
these gizmo icons are a little bit large.
To adjust that, you can well either
toggle the visibility of them or
you can select this menu and
I'm going to uncheck 3D icons.
So if those are a little bit
large in your Scene view,
you can do that in this
upper right menu here.
So yeah, I've got this sphere here and
that's going to drop into
the world when the game starts.
Now, we also need a collectible,
and that will be the little
purple sphere that each
player is trying to collect.
So I will create a new 3D object,
a new sphere here,
and we'll call this collectible.
And we'll position this at an x of 0,
a y of 1.05, and as z of 0.
And then again, this is way too large,
we want it to actually be
even smaller than the player.
So we are going to see scale
this down to 0.025 for
each one of the axis, okay?
So 0.025 for all three.
So now, it's pretty tiny in
the Scene view but if I hit F,
it'll frame it up and
there's our tiny little sphere that will
be the collectible in our game as
the players are rolling around.
There's one more important thing we
need to adjust on this collectible, so
with it's still selected in the inspector,
come down here to the sphere collider
component and where it says is trigger,
you want to check that to be true.
Because we'll get into
physics in a little bit,
but we want this to be a trigger collider.
Yes, there's question.
>> Are meters the only
unit of measure in Unity?
>> That's a good question.
I'm not sure,
I don't know that you can change it.
I also don't think you would want to,
well I take that back,
I'm sure there's lots of scientific or
archivist applications where you
probably wanna change that,
I don't know, I've never tried.
Yeah.
>> Is there a common naming convention for
organizing these-
>> Game objects?
>> Yeah.
>> No.
[LAUGH] No there's not
a common naming convention.
I would say the naming convention
comes from video games really,
like a collectible in a game
as a collectible in Unity, so
that's what we're calling it.
>> But like you put spaces and things you
don't do CamelCase that kind of thing.
>> Gotcha, yeah, I generally
put spaces like main camera and
directional light here.
But there really is no convention.
I've seen plenty of projects with things
all lowercase, underscores, I mean.
>> Nope, it's kinda wild.
It's really up to the developer.
>> Are the game objects classes?
>> No, so well they,
I mean, yes and no.
[LAUGH] It's kinda complicated.
So, a game object is a class in Unity.
So I guess yes, is the answer,
but in this context,
that's not really how I think of them.
I mean,
they are instantiated in the Scene, and
they do have a class you can access.
So yeah, I don't know how to answer that,
I guess.
[LAUGH] But yeah,
game objects are a class and
they are instantiate in the Scene, so.
Again I think the more important thing to
pay attention to is that every game object
has a transform.
So, let's see there any other questions?
No, cool.
Okay, so the last thing we were doing is
we made sure that this collectible and
its sphere collider is
set to be a trigger.
So, we'll talk more about
physics later on but
we're setting this to be a trigger
collider rather than just
a normal collider because we
don't want the collectible to
actually bump into things and
intersect other objects.
We want the players to be able to roll
right through and when it intersects,
actually just collect that and
execute some code that we'll write later.
So it's not a physical thing
that's being knocked around.
So, if that were unchecked, it would be,
and in the case of the player,
it is unchecked.
We want the player to actually
bump into the opponent,
bump into the game board,
that kinda thing.
So, the collectible is a trigger.
Very important to check
that little checkbox or
it's gonna be very confusing later on.
[LAUGH] Okay, there's a few other
things in the Scene like I mentioned.
We've got the main camera, we've got
the directional light, those I've already
set to the positions and values that they
should be in in the startup project.
But the cool thing about this is that now,
if you go to the game view,
you'll actually see something,
the camera is set up so
that it is framing this board that we
placed in a very specific position.
You can see the little collectible there,
you can see the lighting being
cast onto these objects.